I continue to experiment with it and stuff, after, after like a few hours we will have right was with Dana Larsen where if you join I will talk more about it and Ellen said, where I have been trying to create the electronic signature collection.
So that is also an important source so you can identify how things are working out. And if you have been in the draft exhibit just before this, you might have at some point is there as well.
Okay, now coming to the very end I won't take much any more time. So the possibilities is where we can go further. Now, I talked about electronic India, right.
So, in terms of India, the group which exists in WhatsApp at this point, but because our country's going to start a humanitarian crisis we're using the group to collect resources that help each other out, you need to collect oxygen or give them hospital
beds, because yes academic is important, but it is even more important for people to be alive. Yeah. My deals are given, and I will be really love to talk, anytime.
So yeah, thank you so much.
So our next speaker is Susie Cronin, who is a scholar of any French literature, based in Cork, Ireland, at the moment.
It's such an interesting situation where you never know where people actually are their institutional affiliations and where people are from and then there are
places where they happen to be at the moment so, yeah, wonderful, but also disorienting for me.
And you and I are not so hard for me but it feels like you know you could be in any time zone or anywhere.
Anyway, go ahead Susie. Thanks so much. And so I'll just preface my discussion by saying that I'm not actually affiliated with an institution at the moment and I'm not researching full time, but I did come across, and I'm going to start sharing my screen
and probably quite clumsy Lisa and share screen.
So I'm currently looking at migrant narratives and the ways in which these sort of contribute to.
And let me just find the button because I know little faces are over, present, and I shouldn't try and speak and coordinate myself at the same time Can everyone see my screen.
Perfect. Good, thank you so much.
Perfect. Good, thank you so much. And yes okay so I'm currently looking at the way in which online communities are formed and the way in which the iterations of community then have sort of repercussions for understanding of mobility and privilege and
travel in the present. So as part of that sort of interest strand. This is something that I developed following a reading the IOM world migration report in 2020, and to see that migrant narratives have been rendered in expressive digital forms so that
is to say, narrative forms that operate for the purpose of storytelling. So we have instances of apps such as the Italian app working, which is a slightly gamified up that is designed to allow migrants to navigate the job market in Europe, but I think
the two apps that I look at here survival and very my love both produced in 2017 or interesting for this kind of purity of storytelling intention and the idea that they're purely for narrative purposes.
They're both gamified to they're both sort of designed in such a way that they are engaging user interactivity, and they use the game form but in sort of a non traditional way as I explore here.
So, because of the shortness of the discussion, I'm just going to cherry pick some of the points, and I was skeptical initially when I read this was my presentation on moving so
there we go. Apologies. So I was skeptical initially about this idea of the serious game in inverted commas so that's how survival presents itself on, it's Google App Store homepage.
And then I found the concept of retail release persuasive game useful here so the persuasive game is that is designated as an art practice or a piece of instructive art, more so than sort of marketable product designed as an enjoyable destruction from
the real world. And, and so really emphasizes the particular aptitude of the persuasive game form for dealing with political themes such as labor migrants and war.
And so I find this quite a constructive sort of avenue to look at some of the problematic surrounding categorizing this kind of material. And I looked also at the way in which empathy is generated, and we won't kind of have time to look into other platforms
such as Instagram for example but I think it's interesting to look at the capacity of migrant centered content and content created, and by and for people on the move.
As a force that can sort of regenerate and refresh and contribute positively to our perception of what migrant experience is. And I think as has arisen in sort of previous discussions in different panels, the mobile phone kind of keeps rising as one of
the most democratic side of platforms for, and the sharing of digital narrative so I think this fact that both of the narratives I explore here are published on phone apps is really powerful in the sense that it creates this kind of as even as possible
access.
And let me see.
So I'll skip forward a little bit because I'm conscious of time. This is the homepage of survival so it shows the sort of six thumbnails that and describe the six levels.
I was gonna say chapters I've got to internalize the narrative too much so survival is an app that's held in landscape rotation on the phone so it's kind of redolent of this kind of Game Boy format, and the gamification does mean that the up simplifies
somewhat that kind of characterization, and other aspects of sort of narrative development and so its capacity to generate entity is kind of surrendered a little bit to fitting in with the game for him and I think that's part of the fact that it's generated
as a collaborative project that I believe did not receive so much funding, but they've done very well in order to create a piece that raises awareness that's freely available and that represents what can be done when sort of migrant communities and locals
in inverted commas because I think that term is also quite a strangely tokenizing work together in order to create something that allows people to navigate.
And I think it was faulted in some of the reviews for its simplicity, and I think in some ways the way in which it's set up as a game has caused issues with some users were one of the user of using the Google Play Store reads, I like it but why does the
boat level have to take so long. So I think the empathy is blocked somewhat by the extent to which the game is created as a game in which the goal is to move through things sort of seamlessly.
And I'm conscious of time I'm probably exploiting the time limit a little bit so do stop me please. And if I'm going over a very me My love is a much more sort of developed project in the sense that there are multiple sort of organizations involved so
the pixel hunt I de France and fakes, and it's inexpensive it's not free to download it's also available on the App Store.
And you have a sense of the aesthetics from this.
And part of the advertisement for baby My love characterization is much more developed, it takes the form of instant messaging between Nora who is a migrant woman from Syria undertaking a sort of clandestine journey to Turkey, there are a number of different
sort of strands of the narrative so depending on how you choose to respond you normally have two options so you're you as the user are interrupting as much, who's no noise husband and the narrative, and the tone is very sort of ludic so I think the title
very me my love comes across as a little bit alarming to a non Arabic speaker but it's sort of colloquialism that is quite a common place way of saying goodbye.
So I think, then by contrast to this kind of quite large title and the actual vernacular of the narrative itself is quite playful and in some ways quite Americanized so there is a little sense, and that we need to pro here as well as to what degree words
are being placed in the characters mode, what's being lost or gained in translation but that's a whole other discussion for someone with a bit more Arabic proficiency.
So the narrative in twins itself in the temporality of instant messaging, the absence push notifications to the user. The way in which the user has to experience delays, sort of, then parallel, the way in which measured has to wait on updates from newer,
there's a degree of uncertainty and suspense experienced from these delays.
So I think this does work really effectively in order to generate sort of a sense of empathy with someone in the position of being separated from a loved one who's undertaking a migratory trajectory.
And there's also a lot of discussion of the kinds of issues that are encountered. Am I doing okay for time to have.
Yeah.
I think everyone's just being kind I think I'm probably running over. So neuro occasionally cuts the conversation short where you have issues such as low battery and so there is this kind of paralleling of the user with measured who's based at their home,
he has the stability where he's not sort of am subjected to the same kind of restrictions measured is also sort of freely able to browse information so for instance you'll hear from Norway she's in Croatia and she sees a huge demonstration or blockage.
And from my perspective, he is the one who's able to browse for con for news content or updates, and that might give him some context as to why that is and so you can feel noise kind of apprehension and the restrictions on her in terms of not allowing
her phone battery today because she's never quite sure how much is left so there is a very real sense of sort of urgency and also limitation here. I think these delays really generate investment in the narrative, for any user that is sort of earnestly
engaging with the narrative I think there is a really successful sort of sense of investment and I think the way in which the push notifications are sent to the user's phone mean that they're sort of accorded attention, there's a decision actively been
taken each time in this attention economy, whereby this narrative deserves attention this narrative deserves sort of investment on the part of the user.
I'll skip ahead just to my concluding remarks because I think we should sort of start to wrap up, and then again I've mentioned this before the phone is an intersection between practicality and entertainment urgency and distraction.
And it kind of operators quite a democratic platform choice so I think the mobile app narrative has a huge amount of potential for narratives in terms of diffusing widely and diffusing in a democratic way.
I return to the persuasive game notion will no doubt prove fruitful in gaining a fuller understanding of the game from beyond lunatics and operating more intentionally as a catalyst for change, and I look as well in the paper at Games for Change an organization
that looks at specifically grouping together or sort of indexing games that have a social context or social justice sort of context and intention, and finally to small things.
I'm wondering whether and this might be very reductive for scholars, with more sort of proficiency in video game studies, but whether the persuasive game in the traditionally held perception of video games form as rooted in fantastical escapism, and instead
engages the player in urgent emotion and confrontation with real world issues. And that's sort of an open ended question that will just sort of feed into further probing of this persuasive game idea in relation to not only migrant narratives, but also
LGBT q sort of narratives and the scope of the video game as a mode of exploring empathy and understanding community building and community solidarity here.
And finally, looking at the title of this panel platform possibilities and beyond I'm interested in the way in which migrant narrative can capture and express itself, the way in which migrants can use social media platforms to re center the dialogue that
often is kind of appropriated by journalism and is often sort of em prescriptive in the sense that news platforms will often dictate what kind of content they want to use in order to mobilize a particular vision of migrants so I think this kind of capacity
for migrants to re center themselves within their own narratives is something that represents quite a powerful potential and I think it's quite exciting to see this appearing in the realm of digital literature, as we kind of talked more and more about
equality of representation and looking at communities were annoyed, engaging in digital points so thank you so much for listening.
I kind of skipped over the last slides apologies.
One stop screen sharing that.
Thanks very much Susie
fairly well on time with with powerful questions as well. So we should be okay.
Just a warning because my, I keep getting warnings that my connection is unstable and my screen freezes, a little bit every now and then. So, I'm not planning to disappear but if I drop off line for a second so don't be alarmed.
I will be back as soon as possible.
Great, thanks Susie, and we have one more speaker in this panel, and gods, Julian Hannah and assistant professor in Tilburg University in the Netherlands at the moment, if I understand correctly, and yeah, go ahead union, and we'll have a conversation
and questions afterwards.
and afterwards. I'll just share my screen here.
That can you see that. Okay.
Can you hear me and see everything and everything's good. Okay, good.
So as you can see my papers called pandemic and protest revolution and reflection, and it's about the online manifesto from the past.
14 or 15 months, basically, as you'll see I kind of stuck to the brief of the pandemic timeline pretty closely.
So I'll start by saying I hope this finds you well, in a way that we've gotten used to say, this is just a glimpse of the full version, obviously.
So, kind of starting from this point of view of taking the manifesto as the kind of genre of the avant garde.
And it also kind of is reflecting in often encouraging crisis points and upheaval in politics and society and the arts.
There's been a lot of great scholarship on the manifesto, but most of it was written before 2008 so it's starting to get its you know just as social media was getting started so it's it's getting slightly out of date, and that's the kind of gap I'm trying
to fill but in this case I'm just starting.
I'm just focusing really on the pandemic period.
So, this was strange timing.
I think manifestos definitely thrive in years like the one we've just had the times of uncertainty and promise, as well. I wrote about some of these themes in the manifesto handbook there on the left, which came out in February.
On the eve of the pandemic. And then the very next month, Brianna fires excellent anthology burn it down feminists manifestos for the revolution was published by versa.
So neither of us got a book tour.
As far as states in our introduction, we've returned again to a period of cultural reckoning. People who wants to on the sidelines are jumping into the fray.
And through mainstream social media platforms as well as niche and alternative online spaces, the manifesto is reclaimed its function as a primary marker of history, but whether analog or digital manifesto has always been serving very diverse movements
and ends.
So I started collecting manifestos, even more than usual. At the beginning of the pandemic. And I was keeping a sort of hybrid pandemic protest manifester diary.
So the paper is divided chronologically and moves through the Four Seasons, or five seasons beginning and ending in spring.
It was the year of reflection and reevaluation.
In the spring of 2020, followed by action and upheaval in the summer, followed by frustration and promises of change in the autumn, followed by reaction and acceleration engineer collapse in the winter, you remember, followed by mounting fatigue delirium,
and finally some hope for the future with the arrival of spring and vaccinations.
So, to start with spring.
If there's one manifesto that's emblematic of the tone of spring 2020 It must be the self quarantine manifesto lunch from the website stayed at home.
The blind impractical open source manifesto describes itself as a set of loose guidelines for people who wish to join the movement and take action, that can actually make a difference and other high profile manifested from March.
It takes the form of the questionnaire, although there's still some kind of combative manifesto rhetoric in there. For example, He says, Now is the time for the annual stock take when common sense asks us to start production up again as quickly as possible.
We have to shout back. Absolutely not.
seizing the opportunity for change at the outset of the pandemic Latour asks, what are some suspended activities that you would like to see not coming back in the arts lockdown I conditions in the first place, prompted an accompanying wave of manifestos.
So there were, for example, he flex magazines letters against separation. Three, magazines, 3am in lockdown series, and many others sought to provide a space for conversations that were no longer taking place in person.
And then on another another level they kind of became this kind of space for larger conversations about art or writing in general and how we create and how we live in now we want to live.
Going into the summer. Suddenly, as we all saw in the news and many of us witnessed in the streets.
Another type of manifesto and manifestation was dominating headlines. So the depth of George Floyd, a year ago this week on the 25th of May, captured in a nine minute and 29 second video led to protests that were not only nationwide but in the US but
worldwide.
In June, as you can see here several blocks blocks of Seattle's Capitol Hill were declared an autonomous zone by protesters who issued a manifesto with more than 30 demands.
Black Lives Matter drafted a new list of seven demands including defend the police.
And then at the same time.
Citizen video had been vastly improving over the past couple of years and people were getting to know how to use technology and how to act in front of the camera, and at the same time, we're all becoming more critical as viewers.
And as a result, some of the best manifestos in this, we could see this last summer, are kind of viral videos up spontaneously composed and shot in the thick of the action.
Not dimension on appearing on Tick Tock.
So countless videos of speeches from protesters and community leaders appeared online during the summer of 2020, and this is plainly, a new form of making manifest it Sarah, Ahmed rights in the labor of making manifest we make a manifesto.
Of course the foil for these protests videos, is the police brutality video, one of which ignited some of the biggest protests in US history.
Of course during Ella Fraser's video of George fluids murder in Minneapolis.
Frazier, her video literally made manifest and kind of bore witness and bore brought facts to light it contradicted the official police statement that was issued after Floyd's death, and led to the eventual trial and conviction of Derek Schulman where
it was used as a key piece of evidence.
I'm going to skip that.
The long running reality TV program that was the US presidential election reached its finale in November, shifting into autumn, more than ever, this sort of manifesto ease became the norm on social media platforms with everyone.
Trading slogans and kind of attacking each other, new platforms like parlor and gab and rumble popped up that would become even more popular as prominent figures on the right, were banned from mainstream platforms, particularly on the right.
Among academics and students and digital workers of all kinds. Meanwhile, a very tangible zoom fatigue, which you may be familiar with began to sit in.
This is artist and educator Michelle cast presents video empty, empty video chat Manifesto, which declares we refuse to fake human presence. She makes a passionate plea for non visual communication.
This is obviously just a bit of it.
She says he hears my voice, listen, it's full of unquantifiable information, it is human soft real.
So no, no video today or tomorrow you'll remember what I look like when we meet again.
Winter brought a new wave of the pandemic across Europe in the US and elsewhere and there was this general sense of upheaval and near collapse, both in terms of pandemic and protest.
The letter could be seen in the January 6 invasion by Trump supporters of the US Capitol, a stark reminder that manifestos are not by any means, necessarily, progressive and neither is the counterculture.
Just to wrap up with spring 2021 almost halfway through 21 it's hard to argue that everything is fine. So the question is, maybe, how can manifest those help.
What I hope to see going forward is more collaboration more experimentation, fewer boilerplate manifestos after marks and Marin Eddie, and thinking about in shaping the future and forming communities.
These are some of the manifestos great strengths, and sometimes they all come together. So you have the future vision, the practical social artistic application, and the community, forming and getting behind a manifesto.
Um, so that's more or less if I may just really quickly, it's not directly directly related to the pandemic, but of course there were many other kinds of manifestos that kept popping up during the year that weren't related to the pandemic or the protests
and a striking example, just kind of in formal or technical terms of what's possible is Rosa maintenance. She did the glitch studies manifesto from about a decade ago, and her latest Manifesto, which was published in a book in 2020.
At the start of the pandemic.
She has this manifesto this IRD manifesto that's critical of institutional failures, and it takes the form of these five apparently inscrutable panels that require de encrypting to read, and each panel depicts the different tenants of the manifesto.
And in the book containing the manifesto, it ends with a quote from Dr Horowitz the cyborg Manifesto, which I think is still a key influence for the current generation of cyber feminists, so I just wanted to put that out there it's an interesting example,
and there's more in the paper, of course. Thank you very much hope I didn't go too much over.
Thank you very much. Julian, it's, that's great.
And we are still on schedule and we're still also a schedule of having one more presentation in this panel I think there was a slight mix up with, with the schedule.
But since everybody has been keeping to their time fairly well that's, that's not going to cause a problem. So, we have another presentation to look forward to, which is by Karen, I'm done a key, on, on the summing up Seattle.
And I believe our presenters are are here on the stage is yours.
Thank you. Thank you very much and yeah, and to the other presenters and and the audience.
And we appreciate.
Squeezing I see and I wonder whether we should just simply move along with this without a presentation of the screen.
We were presenting some research that we have probably been conducting now for about a year, year and a half, starting with some research that we were doing for that Barcelona agency I wonder whether we're still under an NDA phenomena, I don't know.
Anyways, so into social media. So one of the questions that we started to ask ourselves, was with this kind of forced experiment in in online existence.
That was 2020.
We were wondering about these spaces that were once occupied by individuals and artists and and practitioners in electronic literature, becoming eclipsed by social media platforms.
And we started to think a little bit about what happens inside those spaces when an artist or writer begins to work in those spaces so we we started working on the app is not the territory and writing to the edge of platform ism so the research itself
is a typical for us we we generally, we generally make things first, and then we post the arise. So we're,
you know, with with sort of writing this research.
We started off with the idea of 1000 platforms, and so we talked a little bit about platform ism, and we try and establish some arguments around platform ism as an ideology that we wanted to look at platform ism as an ideology because it seems to have
as Andy was saying it's eclipsed, the use of the World Wide Web.
It has taken the audience away, obviously well repositioned as as all of the examples we've seen today in this panel have shown, artists, obviously thriving, even in these spaces and we're not denying that at all.
What we're saying though is that perhaps in the rush to occupy and to work within these spaces.
There may be there may not have been enough time to reflect on what the performances and challenges of platform ism are like, what are we doing inside platform is and how is it changing the artist and the and the creative practitioner.
So we wanted to establish that platform ism.
The platform is we call it platform ism, and we believe very strongly that it is an ideology.
Obviously this is reflecting on echoing work by loving and Wendy Chan and this suggestion has been made that this is we are in an ideology when we're in these applications on our smartphones because there is a certain control hegemony of the structure
and of the formal spaces and of the template and there's no no control over the, over the writing spaces and the communication spaces by the user. And so, and at the same time, we are perceiving our world in a different way, if we are performing or creating
within social media with our life activity.
So in the end, the platform or the system of platforms through the device and the app, and the other users controls our perception, it is logical in its form.
It controls our actions or it encouraged us to act in particular ways and.
And these are all the signs that point to platform isn't being an ideology if you frame it in this way.
So, we.
So I'm skipping that page then we establish that sorry. So, so all right so we're talking about. We're talking about an ideology and list, let's take that as a premise.
What we're starting to really think about at this point and I think a good example of this is a scene from friends, the TV series in which all the characters visit London.
This would be very quick so if you can indulge this example.
Chandler and, and Joey exit from the hotel in London, and joy is, you probably know the same it's quite well known but if you don't.
Joy is disoriented and needs to find himself in the, in the territory. He opens up a map, and he says, I know, I'm going to have to get into the map. He lays the map on the ground and he steps into this map.
I hope you can see this little, the screen that I'm that we're talking on top of here.
This was a really interesting Same for us it's this Mary Poppins moment sort of jumping into kind of drawings on the ground and entering into a new reality we see Joe instead kind of bodily moving into the the the the map itself and we started thinking,
Okay, well, there's something in this here. So, we talked about, we talked about platforms as literally being like the etymology plateaus, you know they are raised up from everything else that is the ground or is the flow or is the internet or whatever
else and this started Of course with the page rank system, you know webs web sites had to be seen. So, there was the idea of a search engine that would rank or page rank from from Brynn, and page and brings page rank is the is basically the, the original
step or edge if you like that later becomes the edge rank, that we find in a lot of these platforms. So we're drawing a conclusion at this point that the that the platform the edge of this platform.
This edge less edge, in a way, is defined by the user.
And but defined by the multiple users as well, because the, the social media application is only as strong as the number of followers as, you know, as was mentioned before the idea of Gavin parlor and all of these, these apps, they have their followers
again subscribing to the ideology of platform ism, but that communal edge is the is determined by the algorithm of affinity and weight and decay so the number of people that you have around you at any given time, and the weight which is the importance
of your post the idea that it is original content or it's, you know, it's better than a just a repost or a like, and then the decay, that it is how it's like losing visibility over time.
So the idea, this will encourage users to keep posting so there's a continuous stream.
All of these activities together are forming, you know the edge of your own profile this edge rank for yourself as a user and collectively within the platform.
But then, the edge of that platform.
If it is your own activity, and you're living that and posting it, it keeps pushing beyond its as, you know, and he just said is, it is an endless edge.
So I talked a little bit about Derek Darren here which Karen doesn't want me to mention, But let's say that I'm, I'm leaning on their dogs notion of a Korea.
So, this border beyond which we can't pass. So this.
So, so the platform represents, in a way.
I a map of our tour territory, in which we step into because we feel we sense, an existential threat, like Joey, we move into it.
And it's, and, and moving towards that edge is impossible. It's an appropriate and Angeles edge, because it represents a kind of civic Tokyo kind of representation of ourselves.
So I'll read. Otherwise, we'll never end this Karen, so users upload their life content to social media reconstructing their world. They take on a digital persona and step into the map, social media provides the app profiles, sorry social media profiles,
or the app replace the territory.
And there are users who find comfort in the template driven surface of the plateau, like Joey and others who are uncomfortable and resist the urge like Chandler not end on Chandler's words.
When Joe he steps into the map, Chandler's kind of horrified by this. And he looks on and says, If you see a little version of me in there, kill it.
That's as good a place to end last chance. Well, I think the conclusion though it's yet definitely about platform ism but the conclusion that we draw it in the paper that unfortunately we didn't upload in time.
Is that what what writing can occur when you're writing with the awareness of the processes of the edge that will allow your work to be seen in the in a particular way and it creates your audience for you.
It's not, it's not a democratizing space in any in any way your audience is filtered by this edge rank. So what writing can occur when you write with the awareness of the processes of the edge, knowing that the the activity is the data that you're transacting
transacting This is the exchange that you sign off on, on the terms of service when you become a user, and you enact the platform ism, and then knowing that you have zero space to reprogram your communication spaces.
So that's, I guess the question is, how can we write in against the platform. Yeah.
That was it. I think we, we thought five minutes wasn't very much. We just thought would outlive.
Thank you.
Thank you, Karen. Thank you. And I actually think it was the perfect concluding presentation for the panel.
Because I feel there is, there is.
There's the whole opposition, or balance to be found between platforms and online platforms and mobile platforms as, enabling, and as tools for resistance to marginalization and democracy and so on, which is a valid approach, but equally valid is the
question of who controls platform platforms who controls their design who decides what we see who sees our
the products of our creative work and beers our voice. So I think that tension is something that might be interesting to discuss as well. A little bit from the point of view of all of the presentations or are in the context of all of the topics covered
here.
So, if people have questions or comments please add a plus or q to the chat window, and I will distribute
Scott sport for questions here I think there's one already here from Carlotta is Carlos oh here.
I am but I didn't have a question. Okay, there was okay that was another comment.
Okay, there's two questions waiting so we'll start with search perhaps and then I'm gonna give you so I happen to see certain question person then we'll move on to a knife that's okay.
Read my question into the chat or
I can hear you.
Just got to question for two questions for you, Susie.
There is a French never trilogies phosphorus literature, and she defines empathy and efficient as the, we say it in French because I know you can speak French.
The disease, obviously, Divinia on the penetration model.
So for her.
An interactive narrative again as below me My love, would be more based on identification, than an empathy.
So would you agree with that. This is my first question and I've got the second question.
I think it's interesting to notice that the inspiration of Bernie My love, originally in French, was a real What's up, thread, published by limo The, the newspaper but the website reminded site.
It was called the diary of immigrant, and then it was transformed in a, in efficient for smartphone. Miss Patricia, and Bernie my love place on notifications by a fictional character sent to the reader.
And to this you know this frontier blood between the fictional time and reduce real time. So do you think that the smartphone device reinforces accelerates the blurring of the fiction, that's useful at frontier distinction.
Yes. Thank you so much. So those are two really great questions and to address the first question this idea of empathy, as a hindered or block desire to help the character I think that's really pertinent to bury me my love and for me, there is a point,
which also made me think of some years presentation in which the female writers referred to catharsis and emancipation because there's a point invariably my love in which nor admits that she is tired of the abuse that she's been suffering and this conscious
something really jarring to both the user and to magic because the way in which she depicts her experience is always extremely jokey. It's almost as if she's partaking in this mischievous adventure, and there is a point in which that sort of crack in
the, in the perfect carving of the narrative as something liberating leads the user and magic to question that whole depiction so there is an element in which that flips the whole experience and it shows, precisely that blockage to empathy, the fact that
what we've been consuming is produced specifically for our consumption and not as a realistic depiction of personal experience. So I think that experience of empathy as a frustrated and impossible identification is probably and engendered by that one
sort of pivotal point so I think that's quite interesting. And the second question let me just have a little look.
Oh no, I've lost it, it was real, what do you think the smartphone device reinforces the blurring of the fiction restaurant at frontier. Absolutely. Because when you enable these push notifications on your phone, the message that appears will sometimes
it doesn't have any sort of meta bottom banner that shows that it's from the app, it doesn't sort of say bury me my love content designated sort of distinction from your reality so you're getting messages that say things like, I'm stuck on the Croatian
border or I made it or my phone might die soon and they're popping in a note and entwined with the logic of your own sort of phone messages so you're getting WhatsApp messages saying things like bring milk and bread from the shop and sort of messages
saying, What am I going to do but the violence that the Serbian border so I think that's really effective and I think that blurring is really necessary to the generation of an empathy that can only go so far because of precisely that blocked ability to
identify and experience. So, to really interesting questions thank you so much and I'm looking forward to reading your work on very much.
Thanks very much.
So, I think connects its, honor, Stephanie and David, unless I've missed somebody and if I have Give me, give me a shout.
So Anna, you have a question, um, thank you very much for all your presentations and also think of search for your question because actually, my question is also to Susie.
And it sort of develops along similar line. And it also stands from my analysis of interactive story. Cold migration trail night, 2017, and your presentation actually the questions, made me think about one particular aspect because you don't know right
can be such a centralizing and unit sizing tool. When it comes to the fiction of dramatic and tragic developments right. Um, my question would be, do you see any chance, or any role or significance significance for the gaps in the narrative.
Because my impression is when I analyze migration trail. A couple of years ago.
It was published in the hater is that, and a current who happens to be editing. So anyway, we'll make analyze this interactive story.
I sort of wasn't aware of it, then, and I'm aware of the stack now that I'm, you know these days.
When we have platforms, and when basically, most of our experience is so centralized, so you know, packed and ready to consume right by the others. We might be needs different approaches we may be need are the narrative that is open to gaps discontinuities
frictions, you know, in order to present this extremely traumatic experiences because migration plan trailers also based on the real events of the migration crisis in Europe in 2015, but what it offered it unfolded on over the course of 10 days.
So you could unlock the next chapter, only the next day after you finished the previous one. So, what is did was that you were sort of left, um, you know in in the vacuum.
You know in in the vacuum. When you finish the reading the chapter and then you didn't know what happens to, to the protagonist, and then there were also some some I think intentionally inserted gaps that came from on the performances of the bathroom
she used like it didn't load, you know, seamlessly you had to wait until it loads, and you didn't know you know this this kind of gaps so I'm so sorry for taking up so much space but actually it's because your your presentation was so so inspiring so.
So that would be my question do you see any any chance in the potential or any examples of such gaps discontinuities that would actually be, you know, for me, that would be the potential to empathetic storylines.
Yeah, thanks. That's really great. And I absolutely think that so links in a little bit to what we were saying with surge I think that pivotal moment in which we realized that what nor is relaying isn't actually very
frank, a depiction of her experience it's more something that kind of exposes that consideration and I think that's something that begs. Another question as well as the self censorship of migrant narrative for the sake of the public, not suffering.
unrest presentable I think that's really crucial so I think that as well the delays that we experienced and very mean my love and the fact that actually it has 19 different endings. And, but sometimes it's just a cut off in the communication and it's
not. It's obviously not ghosting but it's the equivalent it's, you know, the fact that communication just ceases to unfold in a way that the user at the point that this happens has gotten used to exchanging, and there's a kind of always a temporary reassurance
in what little can be communicated so I do think that unknown, that the non narrative gestures to is much more important. And so the narrative itself serves this kind of adjacent function whereby it's always gesturing to the non representative of what
it's its function is very important in doing so, so that sort of incompleteness is, is what feeds our awareness of what needs to be understood, if that answers.
Thanks.
Great, thanks for the question. And thanks to Susan for the answer. Stephanie has had her hand up, would I think there's a question about posting a link to the paper but Stephanie, would you like to ask further question.
Yeah, no, I was, I wanted to know about if we could ever Lincoln and we have gotten the link and I think now we've gotten.
Another differently about. Sorry.
Much.
And David has a question here.
For all panelists today would you like me to ask your question or, you know, that why not.
called stand and stand out of our lives where he kind of said we should we need to assert ourselves upon like these social media platforms you know we actually needed as a public.
You can't expect the public to develop media theory as a kind of general policy and we need to actually set some certain things upon them. And I'm wondering you know, it was kind of geared towards any presentation but also I suppose Samuels, you know,
that the public can have any control over these social media or the dissemination platforms or do you think that time has passed. That's a rather broad question I realize is your question addressed to everybody should we just let everybody have my own.
And I know that. Sorry.
I was going to ask somebody would like to start
is just he was the first to present, if it's a question for everybody, or
something.
Oh yeah. Yeah, I think that if you talk about social media platforms and under control over what people post I think it's very important especially to mind context because I was just reading the previous execute whether people from draft.
The who are also coincidentally from India, they were, they were presenting about their explorations in in electronic literature. Now they used Google Sheets, as a place to showcase their projects to give links to other projects, the way they have used
Google Sheets, Google Sheets it's just say it as a place where you can type where you can do stuff, but the way they have used Google Sheets, it seems like they've used like a platform itself, where it looks like a space where you can navigate.
I certainly did not think that you can use Google Sheets like this, that is number one and number two, about Instagram when Instagram came out, mainly it was because of people sharing pictures on it but now I see people creating media to Instagram with
dreams etc etc So, Every mode, every moment of every media can be used in ways that we like. But the question once again depends on that, for me at least, it depends on the differences as well, because I see people meeting on Twitch, and discussing academic
activities on Twitch, but that can be possible in our particular social cultural context where that is possible, that can be possible in the context where there is the technical importance, but not in India In India for discussions in whatever manner
personal, professional, we still have to bank on something like WhatsApp, Therefore the blur the line between the public and the private is not there.
So I think the interrogation should be on the performances, the infrastructure and, most importantly the digital divide, which I believe is extremely important.
Yeah, thank you for the question. Thank you very much summit.
Susie Would you like to respond to the question. Sure. Um, I'll just comment really quickly on a kind of knee jerk reaction to that thought and one of the questions posed was can the public have any control over social media platforms and I think the
root of a lot of the issues we have with public engagement with social media platforms is that precisely they think they are being given controlled by these platforms.
And so I think that, you know, that has such a radical overhaul calling to be done that I'm not sure that awareness is for many even blunted and as you say that I'm the public want to sort of independently developed media theory so that self reflective
ability to step back and analyze what's happening as a kind of mechanism of control, and is not sort of planted yet for more so I think at the risk of sounding a little bit pessimistic I think that idea of the public gaining control needs to be preceded
by an awareness that control is a factor that is impinging upon social media use in the first place.
And I'll stop there because
Julian.
Any thoughts, I don't know.
Okay.
Yeah, lots of thoughts but a little bit, a little bit muddy but I thought first of.
I was thinking of platform cooperative ism, but that's sort of sharing economy stuff but you know as terms of an effort to kind of reclaim the platform or something like it and then I was also thinking of.
Put it in the chat that Caroline busters article, it was quite nice earlier this year about the counterculture and kind of, you know, dark forest, sort of, you know, a proliferation of new kinds of platforms and new forms of counterculture off the kind
of mainstream platforms.
I don't know, something, something, something like.
Thanks. Thanks for the link as well.
Right. So yeah, Andy.
Who inspired this question. How would you like to thank you Julian for that link.
I know what I'm reading tomorrow morning. So, um, I think it's a question of controlling what do we mean writing the code, we mean writing that algorithm that measures. every action and behavior, whether conscious or otherwise.
The, the, it's not that it's too late. If there was never any control. Where, where, you know, we're offered to be users but we're being used. You know that, that there would have to be I don't know I can imagine the possibility of some sort of.
I don't know that they can never be any control in my opinion, Karen.
I think the control can be perhaps in in the weight, I'm thinking of the tick tock users who will get together and and promised to be at Trump's rally and completely sort of tilted that off balance and and so I think they can be control, but not in the
visual sense like I think as you know, we're designers, so we often struggle with working on on all of these platforms and we had a sort of a thriving internet art publication, until the arrival of these platforms that the kind of just vacuumed up just
hoovered up our audience and took them on to the mobile devices and flash wouldn't run on them and nothing was was compatible anymore and the audience didn't seem to care they weren't looking outwards they were looking inwards.
So we needed to get past I think that whole sort of flurry of the emergence of the selfie and and and all of this sort of narcissistic posting your breakfast and and and all of those sort of we needed to get all of those urges out as as the general mass
or the mass population could suddenly publish and be seen on a screen and on a device and they were looking at themselves and I think this is the risk of writing in the platform is that you get tangled up in this sort of narcissistic identity request
and sometimes you get so distracted. You forget why you were there in the first place.
sometimes you get so distracted. You forget why you were there in the first place. But I think yes you can because in the long run.
All of the activity of the social media platform is the edge and that age is feeding back the data to, you know, as oil, you know as the supply to the machinery to the machinery to the, you know, to the iPhones, we probably do have some say we don't really
know it but it's not a loud voice but we have you know, with our wallets and and with our being, followers and being active on the social media platforms.
We do have a certain amount of agency, but it's not precisely that the design that we would imagine or that we had the freedom to have when, when the internet and PHP and all that sort of stuff was and flash was, was the dominant hegemony but i think
i think it's shaking now i think you know this mass acceleration of everybody going on to the platforms has widened, you know, the, the opportunities and the performances in in digital space.
So I am optimistic, I'm not quite sure if the route to get there.
I disagree completely.
We sorry we we do all need to code, we need to, you know, follow Mike marinas advice and and everyone else here in the room that code is and I you know obviously plug away until we can we can break.
Whatever we can put something else and it's maybe writing to the edges is called, I presume It is, yeah.
Thank you very much, and encourage and any questions that I have missed.
Give me a shout know if I have, because I have a question.
So, one thing that I started thinking about that has to do with writing and language and access.
But in a slightly different way in which they've been introduced his language translation and the hegemony of English.
And how this question of agency and kind of resistance to modularization might relate to the language that people use a want to use, or understand or have access to.
And I suppose this is a question to anyone in the panel.
Something that I was thinking of the Indian context.
In particular, but then of course, French language, and so on. That Susie Susie has written about friendship like French literature.
Even though it wasn't the topic today, but it is relevant to social media as well as me would you like to comment on the question of language, and use of online platforms for demanding.
Yeah, absolutely. I would love to comment on that because that is something which has been very integral to my experience growing up specially because I'm from India.
It is an ex colony of Britain, Britain and and the colonial hangover is something that is palatable usable in daily lives. Now, what you were saying about the hegemony of language.
This can be seen in two ways. And this is, this is the debate that I have with natives of my place all the time that there are one strand of people who think that we need to go back to our own languages, whatever that means, and use that for vacation
for academics and all sorts of stuff, but taking my language into consideration. I am a native English speaker Bengali that is.
It's not a language which can accommodate a lot of technical technology or whatever, whatever, there are a lot of difficulty when you come across it was I was recently asked you to serve as a social media translator for something that's coming up.
And I'm supposed to writings in Bengali over there, but my question here my problem here is to, how do I get across, do I write some words in Bengali and some words in English.
Now that is one way to look at it, whether you use your own language or whether you do not. And there are some other people who think that, quote unquote, some language which is from the colonizer that language is no longer a part of the colonizer in
a very Caliban tempests sense of the term, it is your language now, and whether you want to speak back course or whatever you want to do it's your language now.
I'm more belonging to the lighter side of the spectrum. But when I see people use language on social media. They use it in two ways. People who are proficient in English we use English, and people who want to use Bangla, the US Bangla, but there are also
also people who know both, but they prefer to use Bangla, just because they want to show what their identity is where they come from and what their identity is.
So I think it's a matter of personal politics of what do people started for you have very honest and I have tried to pinpoint it to a general consensus, but I have failed.
Thank you very much, Samia, and there's. There was a question coming from certain but certain has decided that he has. he has sort of been.
No Yes, thank you. Yes, thank you all for your presentation. And I just want to thank again somehow for his precious suggestions, and I may ask you if you may explain a little more if you want your next goals for the electronic literature in India.
Thank you.
Oh, thank you, thank you so much for the question about that. Nice to see you after like two or three days with with you. So, for me, electronic literature.
Well, a very important part of electronic register for me is to explore different technical challenges I mean, using VR AR, it's very attractive very nice and it, it can be used in different other ways also, what should we be belonging to a space which
is still very print dominated as, as people as Andy and I were talking about I'm sorry if I can get your name properly.
So, another important part of me is to propagate the notion of web based literacy by the use of electronic literature, which is something that I have been saying for a long time, that ever since we grow, we have been growing up, we have been taught to
read and write on paper, but now most of the reading and writing. I won't say most but a major chunk of reading and writing happened long line.
What we haven't been trained to do so, online. And so what I experience from people of my generation and being from other generation one not acquainted with the online, the electronic or the web or whatever you want to call it, there is this print anxiety
that comes into, into the picture, which is extremely extremely visible that people are anxious about using the internet about scared about pop ups or something like that.
And they always want to use someone's else's assistance. So I personally would think of using electronic digital because it challenges your perception of the media where it is being written.
When, when you click on it, whether you scroll through it, whether you drag point drop. Do whatever you want. The images and then cc text, then click on a hyperlink, go to a different web page, see something and come back, not anything extraordinary just
the rudimentary it challenges your perception on how you do read things how you perceive things on the web. And I believe that it has a very important pedagogical purpose that can be solved in this is as basic as the higher education classroom.
So yeah, that's all.
That's what something that I would like to explore in the Indian context, the pedagogical possibility. Thank you. Thank you so much, which is a few minutes left and I think we let certain ask his, his question.
Sorry I hope I didn't miss miss you too fast is this it was your own or comment that actually, you might be okay but we have time for it.
It's okay.
Brother, it's a continuation of these comments that have come up there, and the discussion we've had in the chat of, you know, platforms
as compared to paper or print or something like that.
And and and i'm totally agreeing to I think it was Susie who pointed out that that of course platforms have this kind of algorithmic way of conforming to whatever you're doing, and also of, of, of limiting, what you can do.
Also through data tracking and feedback, etc.
Though I still. Also, think, and that was where I think, Karen and pointed in that direction that, that this period over the last year where we've been so emerged in platforms.
We are we at this point where we might have started to to learn to read them in different ways that we we learned, learn that the, the data that tracks us is not necessarily as I know okay It's going great, or the green always going to speak about that
later today that that we are not our data.
Data is also just a language and and and I think the really interesting aspects here is, is also of the papers that was presented here is whether we have also different you both kind of use practices but also reading practices within different communities.
And of course, something like manifestos is is a way of challenging.
Also platforms, right.
So, so perhaps it's not really a question but a comment.
Perhaps it's not really a question but a comment. But I think you know so this yeah this moment of readings I think is really interesting.
Thank you very much.
And if it's a comment is a fine concluding comment I think if we have exactly one minute so if somebody has a very short answer.
We have time for that.
But if everybody's happy with things as they are.
I think we can we can accept that that was a wonderful concluding comment for the panel.
I think, I think we are here okay in terms of questions, especially
when you have a question.
I have to present.
How can you presenting, okay.